CSS     JS		HTML
Red Big Jumping Ball

CSS: Cascading Style Sheet
Used to define style of html elements. We can define colors, backgrounds, sizes, etc using CSS.
We use css properties to specify the different type of styles.

The property and its value is separated by : sign. Two properties are separated by ; sign.

CSS can be provided in three ways:
i) Inline CSS : 
	We use style attribute on the html element.
	Inline css is applied to this element.

	The inline css is only applied on the element on which we added it.

	The following code creates a red paragraph.

	<p style="color:red;">
		this is a red paragraph.
	</p>
	
ii) Internal CSS
	Internal CSS allows us to apply same formatting on a element, or unique formatting on element, or same formatting on different types of elements in the same page.
	Internal CSS is provided in <style> tag, isnide the <head> tag.
	To select an element we use CSS selectors
	i) element selector: 	select specific tags/element.
		tagname
		{
			property:value;
		}
	ii)id selector: To select a unique element by the id. We use #sign to define the id selector
	#p1/*select the element having id="p1" */
	{
		color:cyan;
	}

	iii) class selector: class selectors is used to select multiple different types of elements. The class selectors is preceded with . sign
	The class selector selects an element using its class attribute
	.some/*selects elements having attribute class=some*/
	{

	}
	iv) attribute selector
	v)pseudo selectors


iii) External CSS
	The external css is provided in a separate file. The css files must have .css extension. The css files contains only css rules and no html content.
	Generally external css is used to provide the website specific formatting.
	We use external css when we want to apply same css on multiple pages.

	We use <link> tag to link an external css file with our web page.

CSS Properties
color: used to specify the text color of the element.
background-color: used to specify the background color of the element.

	Specifying color values
	We can specify values in a lot of ways. Some of the popular types are as follows:
	i)color names: we can use color names to specify the color value.
		color:red
		background-color:yellow
	ii)hexadecimal code: We can specify the color code using the six hexadecimal digits. The hex code is prefixed with # sign.
		First two digits specifies the quantity of red.
		Second two digits specifies the quantity of green.
		Last two digits specifies the quantity of blue.
		color:#ffffff;				white hex code ffffff
		background-color:#000000; black hex code 000000

	iii) rgb() : we can specify the color code using the css(). It takes three parameters.
	First parameter specifies red color.
	Second parameter specifies green color.
	Last parameter specifies blue color.

	And values of parameters must be between 0-255. 

	iv)rgba(): similar to rgb() with added transparency (opacity).
	Takes 4 parameters, first three for RGB and last one is for opacity/transparency.
	Opacity must be between 0 to 1. 0 means full transparent, 1 means not transparenmt at all.

font-size: it is used to specify the size of the font. font-size should be precceded with units like (px,em,in,rem, % etc)

font-weight: it is used to set the boldness of the font. Its value range between 100-900. 900 is maximum bold and 100 is lightest.

font-style: it is used to make the text italic.

font-family: it is used to specify the font.

text-decoration: used to specify the decoration of the text.
underline, overline, none

text-align: it is used to align the text. Text align can be: left, right, center, justify
the default text-align is left.

height and width
height is used to specify the height of an element.
width is used to specify the width of the element.
We can set the height and width of block elements. We cannot set height and width of inline elements.
Height and width can be given in px, %, em , rem, vw, vh also.

border
The border property is used to specify the following three things
i)border-style
ii)border-color
iii)border-width
We can spcify the above three properties in short using the border.
We can also specify the border of top, left,right or bottom using border-top, border-left, border-right and border-bottom.

we can also specify the individual side's border using border shorthand.
border:solid 1px red; solid red 1px border of all four sides.
you can specify the different border-style of all four side using
border-style: solid dashed dotted double;
As we provide border style for all four sides, similarly we can aslo provide the border-width and border-color of all four sides.

border-style: solid double dashed;
top will be solid, right and left will be double and bottom will be dashed.

border-style:solid double;
top and bottom border will be solid and right and left border will be double.

margin: margin specifies the gap around the elements.
we can specify the margin of all four sides, or 3 sides or , 2 sides or any single side.
For example to specify the top margin we use margin-top, or to specify the left margin we use margin-left.
We can also specify the margin of all four sides using the margin property.
margin:10px 20px 5px 2px; margin from top is 10px, right is 20px, bottom is 5px, left is 2px.

margin:20px 10px; top and bottom 20px, and right left 10px;
margin:20px 10px 5px; //top 20, right and left 10 and bottom 5

padding: padding specifies the gap between elements text and elements border.
We can specify the padding of individual sides or all sides just like we spcify the margin.

Box model
Box model specifies the total width and height of the element.
For further notes use following github repo
https://github.com/verrmatarrun/youtube_notes/
1. open the cmd where you want to clone the above repo
2. run command git clone https://github.com/verrmatarrun/youtube_notes.git
3. for getting updates use git pull command






